adr: Use Go for scripting purposes (#35417)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/adr/1652433602-use-go-for-scripting.md

# 2. Use Go for scripting purposes

Date: 2022-05-13

## Context

> We have always been using bash to write scripts, which is a very logical decision, especially in the early days of Sourcegraph. But it’s hard to maintain them over time and the well known quirkiness of bash is really getting in the way.

Reviewer: Note that you use `bash` here but `shell` later, and interchangeably - maybe start by saying:

```suggestion
We have always been using bash (colloquially also referred to as shell) to write scripts, which is a very logical decision, especially in the early days of Sourcegraph, since for simple scenarios they can be quick and easy to write. But it’s hard to maintain them over time, and basic operations like conditions and iteration are hard to get right. Additionally, the tools that are often used within scripts sometimes require separate installation or have inconsistencies across platforms, causing unexpected breakages when a script that works on an engineer's MacOS machine fails to work correctly in Linux-based CI agents.
```

Above edit also includes more concrete arguments and removes some of the emotional components

Reviewer: It might be helpful to include a quick link here to learn about bash/shell for the uninitiated

> Bash scripts are also notoriously complicated to incorporate code reuse and are preventing us to leverage the building blocks resulting of the continuous effort to improve sg and the CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bash scripts also lack primitives for code reuse, preventing us from leveraging the building blocks resulting of the continuous effort to improve sg and CI, and adding to the complexity of our wealth of bash scripts.
```

> After discussing the topic, it became clear that using Go to write those scripts is beneficial, albeit it requires an initial effort to provide an acceptable experience in writing them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After discussing the topic, it became clear that using Go to write those scripts is beneficial, including things like portable execution, strong types, testing primitives, packaging capabilities, and integration with existing code. However, Go also includes some tedium, especially when it comes to composing and executing commands and operating on their output.
```

> We have explored using an existing library in the preprod restore state script which surfaced incovenience at the API level, that we can address we a custom package of our own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have explored using existing libraries, namely [`github.com/bitfield/script`](https://github.com/bitfield/script), in the preprod restore state script and other experiments ([discussion](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/discussions/33903)) which surfaced inconveniences and awkward idioms at the API level.
```

## Decision

> - Create our own package for wrapping Go scripts, focused at this stage on providing an opionated API for running commands: sourcegraph/run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create our own package for wrapping Go scripts, focused at this stage on providing an opionated API for running commands: [`github.com/sourcegraph/run`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/run).
```

(Including the `github.com/` in the name because that is the full import path)

> - Use the above mentioned package with all new scripts that we are adding, and replace existing shell scripts as we go, unless it’s a bandage fix and migrating it would delay fixing an impacting bug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the above mentioned package to create new scripts going forward, and replace existing shell scripts opportunistically.
```

I don't think the statement implies "migrate every script you touch" so I don't think the disclaimer about the bandage fix is necessary

# 2. Use Go for scripting purposes

> Date: 2022-05-13
> 

Reviewer: @vrto I wonder if we should include the author here? e.g.

```suggestion
- Date: 2022-05-13
- Author: @jhchabran

```

That would mitigate the need to git blame to see the original proposal's writer.

Additionally, another bit of metadata that would be good to include is the originating PR:

```suggestion
- Date: 2022-05-13
- Author: @jhchabran
- PR: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/35417

```
